[ Music ]
>> Lilou: Hello my
Juicy co-creators.
Lilou here.
I'm in London today.
I'm on the road to do another
juicy interview with you,
Anthony, I'm so excited.
Thank you for being
here, coming.
>> Anthony Peake: Thank
you for inviting me
to this beautiful place, very
lovely, really beautiful.
>> Lilou: So you are welcome,
I'm excited, I love speaking
of consciousness of
out of body experience.
We're going to speak of deja vu.
French name, huh?
>> Anthony Peake: Absolutely,
for already seen, isn't it?
Effectively.
We might have done
this before, you know.
>> Lilou: It might
be quite possible.
I look forward to getting
to those conversations.
You wrote many books.
They have been translated
in other languages too.
Could you tell us briefly
the different titles
so we can really clearly see
'cause I know it deals with life
after death and many others.
>> Anthony Peake: The first book
is "Is There Life After Death?"
the extraordinary signs of
what happens when you die
which was published in 2006.
That book has now sold
probably approaching 40,000
copies worldwide.
It's been translated into
Russian, Dutch, Spanish,
various other languages as well.
On top of that, the second book
was then called "The Daemon,
A Guide to Your Extraordinary
Secret Self"
which discusses the
idea of human duality,
the idea of do we have two foci
of consciousness
within the brain.
The third book is then "The
Out-of-Body Experience"
which is my scientific take
on exactly what happens
when people feel that they
move outside of their body.
I've then written a book on time
called "The Labyrinth of Time"
which is the science of
the consciousness of time,
how we perceive time, does
time flow, can time speed up
or slow down, is time circular.
I've then written a book,
I co-written a book,
so I say co-written but
actually co-edited a book
with two Australian
consultant psychiatrists
on the near death experience
called "Making Sense
of Near-Death Experience" which
funny enough was nominated
for the Psychiatric
Book of the Year
of the British Medical
Association last year,
and we still ended up
being highly commended.
So clearly this work has
very much been registered
by serious workers and
serious scientists.
I then wrote and at the
moment I'm in the process
of writing two books and I've
just finished a book called
"The Infinite Mindfield" which
is dealing with consciousness
in the way consciousness
can sometimes
under certain circumstances
perceive alternative realities.
And I'm particularly
interested in the idea
of when we dream,
where do we go.
What exactly is the
reality there?
What happens when people take
hallucinogenic substances
like dimethyltryptamine
and such like?
And I'm working closely there
with a guy called
Professor Ervin Laszlo
who is a Hungarian--
[ Inaudible Remark ]
So you know Ervin, all right.
Well [inaudible] to know.
>> Lilou: Beautiful
heart and genius and--
>> AP: He's a wonderful guy.
I mean I was really honored.
Recently he contacted
me to say he wanted
to write a book with me.
And indeed we have just
started, myself and Ervin,
writing this new book
which will be the evidence
for consciousness existing
outside of the brain.
I'm writing one side of the book
and Ervin is writing the other.
And that will be published
probably about 18 months' time
by Inner Traditions
in the states.
But on top of that, I just
finished writing a biography
of the American science
fiction writer Philip K. Dick
because in my ideas very much
Philip K. Dick reflects an
awful-- he'd lived an awful
lot of the things I discussed
in my books [inaudible].
>> Lilou: The films--
his films were put--
his books were put into films?
>> AP: Yes, very much so.
I mean--
>> Lilou: Can you
mention couple because--
>> AP: Yeah.
"Minority Report" is an
example, "Total Recall"
and of course the
classic "Blade Runner".
And all of these films are
based upon these most iconic
of science fiction writers.
And Philip K. Dick was a
profoundly unusual character
in the sense that his fiction
very much described his life.
I mean he was fascinated by
precognitions for instance.
And indeed in my book I
actually called it "The Man
Who Remembered the Future"
because I cite example
after example of Philip K. Dick
actually being what he turned,
a precog.
And this book very much
deals with those elements.
This book will be
due out probably
in November or December.
So towards the end of this year,
I have two books
coming out and--
>> Lilou: We have so
much to talk about.
>> AP: We certainly do.
We certainly do.
It's where to start.
And it's always the case with
my work is where do we start
and where do we go with
it because it's very wide
and it's very deep
in what I deal with.
>> Lilou: Yeah, yeah.
I hear that you have a theory
and I would love you to talk
about those clues
like [inaudible].
How did this-- all these
started first of all?
How-- when did you get
into this because you seem
to have really plunged and
got really deep into it.
>> AP: I suppose-- well, it's
really quite a curious story.
I work as a management
consultant.
This is my normal living
and what I do is I assist
companies in various ways.
And I've been in
the circumstances
where I've done a fairly
reasonable contract and I was
in the position but I could take
some timeout to write a book,
and I'd always wanted
to write a book,
but I didn't know what
I wanted to write about.
You know, it's one
of these things,
it's one of these
urges we always have
with fiction, nonfiction.
And my wife agreed
and we said we--
I take literally one
year out, you know.
And on the first day, I'm
sitting there in front
of a blank computer
screen going,
"What am I going
to write about?"
And literally it was like
that and I was going, "Fine,
where do I start here?"
As I was doing so, I started
feeling a tingling sensation
in my lips and the end of my
finger starts to feel numb.
Now I realized exactly what was
happening because it happens
to me two or three times a year.
I was having what's
called a pre-migraine aura.
It's the kind of a sensation
you have before indeed
if you have the full headache.
But it's a kind of a
pre-warning of the fact,
it's a neurological aspect.
And as I was feeling
quite strange,
I suddenly have the
most profound sensation
that I had sat in front
of that computer screen
in exactly the same
circumstances in my home.
We were then living in
Horsham in West Sussex.
Looking out of that
window at the view
and the sensation
was overpowering.
It was a sensation of
absolute recognition.
Now of course I recognized
the phenomena
as being what I would
then call deja vu.
But when I actually came
out of the aura state,
I realized that's
what I needed to write
about because I thought,
"I wonder if there's been any
books written about deja vu.
Exactly what is deja vu, what
is the neurological explanation
for déjà vu?"
So I started reading up
about the subject and I came
across a fascinating
paper written
by a guy called Dr.
Arthur Funkhouser
who is now a friend of mine.
He is an American that's
based in Bern in Switzerland.
And he wrote a book called
"The dream theory of deja vu".
And in this paper, Art suggests
that a deja vu sensation
or as he calls it a deja
vecu sensation, you know,
already lived, his argument is
that you have had a dream
recently and in the dream,
there's been certain
events taken place.
Now when you have a
dream and you wake up,
you remember the dream for a
few seconds then you forget it.
But what tends to happen
is the dream remains
in your subconscious.
And what he claims happens
is that you then start
to live the dream,
what you dreamt starts
to happen in real life.
And you have this curios
recognition that you don't know
where from because
the actual definition
of the deja vu sensation
was put forth
by a guy called Vernon Neppe
who's a psychiatrist in Seattle.
And Neppe basically says,
it's this kind of feeling
of a recognition, of a memory of
something in an indistinct part
of your past because that's
exactly what a deja vu sensation
is, isn't it?
It's "have I done this before
or have I lived this before?"
So I started reading up about it
and reading about the neurology
and I found that
much to my surprise,
there are neurological
explanation for this,
and one of the most
famous ones is the visual
pathways hypothesis.
And this basically was
put forward in 1962
by a guy called Robert Efron.
And Efron suggested that
effectively we have a right
and left hemisphere, OK, and
they function quite separately.
Each of the hemispheres are fed
from the different visual fields
of the eyes, so both
hemispheres have stereovision.
And he argues that what
tends to happen is,
is that a signal is
processed initially
by the non-dominant
hemisphere and it is seen
by the non-dominant hemisphere.
And that message then goes
across the corpus callosum
which is the communication
channel
between the two sides
of the brain.
And then it's fed into
the dominant hemisphere
where we live.
So what happen is you see some--
you subconsciously see something
from your non-dominant
hemisphere,
then you see it in reality.
So it's this kind of recognition
that you've seen
something before.
The problem with the
Efron hypothesis is
that it's 0.05 of a second.
Now when I have deja vu
sensations and I don't know
about you but it's
an overall feeling
that I have lived this before.
You know I-- it's me
standing in these clothes,
having this conversation now
and I've done it before
sometime in my past.
>> Lilou: And that's
what we say,
that's what comes
out of our mouth.
>> AP: Yes, exactly.
Now--
>> Lilou: I've already
seen this?
>> AP: Yeah, I've
already seen it.
I mean this is the
profound thing whereas 0.05
of a second would be
such a short delay.
You wouldn't have
the time to do that.
Now interestingly enough,
there's been a series
of experiments done at the
University of Leeds over here
in the UK by a guy called
Chris Moulin who's professor
of psychology up
there and an associate
of his called Akira O'Connor
and they have discovered
that children who are
born blind have deja--
is it deja senti you would call
it [inaudible] already heard?
>> Lilou: Deja senti.
No, senti is the smell.
>> AP: Smell.
So it's all-- but it's
already heard then, OK.
>> Lilou: Deja entendu.
>> AP: Entendu, that's it.
And deaf-- blind people who
are born blind have the--
they hear something
and they hear it again.
Now the actual-- the way in
which the brain functions,
it works [inaudible] the Efron
hypothesis but it doesn't work
for sound and hearing.
So, therefore the whole
concept is out of the window.
So, therefore we're
then back to the point
of exactly what a
deja vu sensation is.
And effective is-- cut a long
story short, what I found was,
was the neurological
aspects that bring
about my deja vu sensation
when I was having the
migraine aura is linked
to certain neurochemicals in
the brain because it's part
of if you have migraine, if
you read books on migraine,
one of the symptoms
they will say is
that you have deja
vu sensations.
But what I also found was
that there is another group
of individuals that have
profound deja vu sensations
and these are people that
have what is called temporal
lobe epilepsy.
And temporal lobe epilepsy
is a form of epilepsy focused
on the temporal lobes
which are the areas
around the ears effectively
on each side.
And these individuals have
deja vu sensations to kill for.
They have deja vu sensations
where they know what's going
to be happening for the
next two or three seconds.
I did a radio program on BBC
Radio Merseyside a few years ago
and a man phoned
up and he had had
such a profound deja vu
sensation that he was able
to write down on a piece of
paper what he knew his wife was
about to say to him and he
wrote it down on a piece
of paper and handed it to her.
She then said something and
she opened the piece of paper
and what he'd written
was what she said.
I have another associate
of mine who has a tumor
on his pineal gland in his brain
'cause another area I deal was
the pineal gland
which I'll be writing
about on my next feature books.
And in that, he tells me that
he knows what's going to happen
for the next minute or so.
And now again, this guy is
literally a rocket scientist.
He's doing his PhD in
rocket science, you know,
so he's a highly
intelligent guy.
And I asked him and I said,
"If you know what's going
to happen next, why
don't you just say so?
If you know what I'm going to
say now, why don't you say,
'I know what you're
going to say now'?"
And he said, "I can't.
And the reason I can't is if I
did that you wouldn't say it.
You'd say something different,
you'd react differently."
And I see, he said to me, it'd
really be changing the future.
So, I started looking into this
and I thought what's
the linkage here.
And I found there's a
certain neurochemical
in the brain are
called glutamate,
and glutamate is very, very
active in the mammalian brain
and it's also active
in the temporal lobes.
But I also found glutamate
is also a substance
that is involved
in another very,
very peculiar phenomenon known
as near-death experience.
Because at the point of death,
people turn around and they say
that they see their life
flashing before their eyes.
They float about to their body,
they have various sensations.
So, I started looking up in
the near-death experience
and I thought there
is a linkage here
between temporal lobe epilepsy,
near-death experience, migraine,
possibly also bipolar
and possibly an autism.
So, there's a definite spectrum
here and it's all linked
to near-death experience.
And that's then I thought, well,
this idea of my life
flashing before my eyes,
what does this mean?
So, then I started
looking into the concept
of memory and how memory works.
And I discovered much to my
surprise that there is very,
very strong evidence that the
brain lays down the memories
of every single thing
we experience.
It's all encoded in the brain,
possibly holographically
which means that every
experience you have
in your life, from the moment
of your birth to the moment
of your death is already
encoded in the brain.
It's there available.
This is why sometimes we
have charged memories.
You know, probably you
have them, I have them.
And charged memories
are memories you have
of your childhood where
there's an incident
and you can remember
it with absolute vivid
but you don't know why because
it's probably just a very
mundane event.
Whereas the big events in your
life [inaudible] you don't
necessarily remember.
It's as if there's a
process of recording
where the recording mechanism is
super saturated for that point
and it's so vivid to you.
So, there you have the
scenario of these memories.
Now again there was work
done in the 1940s and 1950s
by a guy called Wilder Penfield,
who's a Canadian neurosurgeon
and he used to stimulate
the exposed brain
of conscious patients.
There's a long story as
to why he used to do that
but we [inaudible] time to
go into it at the moment.
But effectively he discovered
by placing an electrode
onto the exposed parts of the
brain of the conscious patients,
he was able to have that patient
elicit past life memories,
literally three dimensional.
They were there back living
a moment in their past.
And Penfield towards the end of
his life said that he believed
that we lay down
all these memories.
Now, imagine a scenario
at the point
of death my life
flashes before my eyes.
Imagine that is in a
near-death experience,
why is it fast forwarded?
It's as if somebody
metaphorically has pressed a
fast forward on a video,
you know when you press fast
forward and it goes through.
'Cause people say they
see their whole life
or snapshots of their life.
What make--
>> Lilou: Not all see--
have premonitions.
Some-- most of them see actually
people that are already there.
>> AP: Yes, they will go back
to a past part of their life.
I have examples because since my
first book, people have written
to me from around the
world giving me examples
of these experiences.
And they're phenomenally common
and it's actually called
a panoramic life review.
I'm now a member of the
International Association
of Near-Death Studies
which is an organization
that studies this phenomenon.
And it is known as the
panoramic life review.
It's--
>> Lilou: So, you
would find the--
Eben Alexander that
I've interviewed back
in France a few months ago,
you must find his story very
fascinating for his brain
as a neurosurgeon
[phonetic] being totally off.
>> AP: Totally, fondly enough
Eben Alexander actually cites my
first book in the
bibliography of this book.
And I'm keen to talk
to him 'cause there's quite a
few things that he discusses
in his book that really
vindicate my own hypothesis,
so I'm very keen and I'm
just delighted to see
that he actually acknowledges my
work as well which is wonderful
to actually hear that.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
He's a beautiful man inside
out, like really he is very open
and has that-- I love
that about people
that had near-death
experience because they seem
to bring something, another
kind of energy and a perception
and they can have
this intelligence.
He's a brilliant
mind from Harvard
at the same time having
this emotional open side
to infinity-- to
unconditional love.
>> AP: I think what happens
is it's because you've had
such a changing experience
that suddenly the way
you perceive reality,
I mean again it's
going off on a tangent.
One of my major issues is the
materialist-reductionist world
view and the idea that
because it cannot be quantified
scientifically therefore
it doesn't exist.
My argument is always
that, well,
consciousness can be quantified.
Neither can a self referential
consciousness in the brain.
I mean science does not know how
inanimate matter in the brain,
the jelly [phonetic]
with electrical impulses
in the brain generates
the concept of being,
the concept of memories
and anticipations
and everything else.
So, that's the great mystery.
It's actually known as the
heart problem of neuroscience
which actually an Australian
philosopher called David
Chalmers came up with
this a few years ago.
So, when you have
these experiences,
they're life changing.
And it makes you realize that
this reality we are perceiving,
there is something not
quite right about it.
Rather like it's
said in the movie
"The Matrix" you know
there's something
in your brain that's scratching
away that you don't feel.
There's something not
quite right with reality.
All you need is one
noetic experience,
one precognitive experience
to make your whole
world view change.
Now people who have
near-death experiences,
their world view changes to such
an extent because they realize
that there's a reality
behind this reality.
OK. Now, going back to
the past life review,
I suggest that at
the point of death,
you relive your life again.
You literally are taken
back to the first seconds
of your life again and you
literally relive it in a kind
of a video, matrix like
video of your own life.
>> Lilou: But wouldn't it be--
why would it need to be stored
in the brain rather
than outside?
>> AP: It isn't.
That's one of the arguments.
My-- I would consider my work
to be iterative in the sense
that my first book
was very much written
from a somewhat materialist
reductions viewpoint
in the sense.
My argument then was
consciousness is written
in the brain.
Therefore, the near-death
experience is neurologically
based but it is an experience
but it's neurologically based.
My work as it's moved on
are now coming far more
to the conclusion that there
is a field of information.
And in my book, "The Out-of-Body
Experience" I discussed this
field of information, it's
basically the zero point field.
And again myself and Ervin
have discussed it, Ervin Laszlo
and myself, 'cause you know
Ervin Laszlo has written the
book called the "Science
and the Akashic Field".
And Ervin-- that's why
Ervin is so intrigued
with where I'm coming from
because I'm putting meat
to the bone of his hypothesis.
So, what we have here is
the information is drawn
up from the zero point field.
And a [inaudible] is
basically the akashic record,
the akashic record of the
Vedas, you know the idea
that there is a field
that contains everything.
It's the computer
program the universe runs
on for want of a better term.
OK. And again in my
book "The Mindfield,"
I deal with the science
behind this
as well 'cause everything
I write
about is always referenced
back to academic papers.
I never write anything that
my readers can't go back
to check 'cause something
is profoundly important.
I very much believe
at the diktat extraordinary
claims need
extraordinary proofs.
It's all well and
good and I know a lot
of my fellow writers do this,
where they just throw
information out
but they never give the
reader the opportunity
to actually check it.
You know I never
claim anything other
than I am an enthusiastic
researcher
and I research material
from other people's sources,
you know, and I then write that
material and pull it together.
So, imagine this scenario they
say so in your final second
of your life and your
back to your childhood,
you live your life again,
you're living your life again
and sometimes you go,
"I've done this before."
This is exactly what
a deja vu is.
It's what you feel it is.
It is literally you
reliving your life again.
Now, imagine the scenario that
if your life is programmed
into the zero point field,
every alternate outcome
of every decision
you can possibly make
in your life is also programmed
into zero point field,
which effectively means
that when you're living your
life again, you can change it.
It's like you're living
in a movie of your life
where you can follow
any route you want to.
I always use the analysis
here, the Russian edition
of my first book is actually
called "Groundhog Life"
because it's similar
to "Groundhog Day".
And interestingly enough,
Danny Rubin who wrote the movie
"Groundhog Day" when
he came across my book,
gave copies of my first
book to all his friends.
He said, "This guy's actually
done the science of my movie."
And I interviewed
Danny Rubin recently
and discussed the
implications of this.
>> Lilou: That had to
be a juicy conversation.
>> AP: Oh, he was funny.
He was hysterically funny,
one of the funniest guys
I've ever interviewed,
really, really wonderful.
And it was a meeting of minds
because we just go on so well,
and I'm planning to
interview him again
on a future date as well.
This hypothesis I call
"Cheating The Ferryman"
and I call it cheating the
ferryman because it's the idea
that there's the old
myth that when you die,
you go cross the River Styx
and the ferryman appears
and you pay the ferryman a
little obolus, a little coin
and he takes you
across the River Styx
and you go to the-- beyond that.
You cheat the ferryman,
you never actually
get-- never cross.
You never pay him because
you never cross it.
Now another interesting aside
here is in ancient Greek myth,
there's something called, the
drinking of the River Lethe.
Now, the Lethe was
supposedly another tributary
of the River Styx and it's
the river of forgetting.
And in ancient Greek
myths, people, if they wish
to could go back and
live their life again.
But in order to do that,
they have to drink the waters
of the Lethe, the
river of forgetting.
And the all their memories were
wiped clean and they went back
and they lived their life again.
So again, this principle
has deep-rooted resonance
in many hypothesis and
theories, it also has elements
of something called the eternal
recurrence, the eternal return
which anthropologists have
talked about for centuries.
Nietzsche talked about it.
The Stoics, the ancient
Stoics talked about it.
The Gnostics have talked
about it for centuries.
And I believe all
this works together
and that's very much why
I wrote the first book.
And that's the basic
hypothesis of the book.
OK. Now, the second
book, "The Daemon,
A Guide to Your Extraordinary
Secret Self", suggests evidence
that there is part of you
that remembers you've
lived this life again.
So in other words,
imagine a scenario
that you're watching
a movie of your life
but you've seen it before and
you know what's coming next.
Or a better analogy, you're
playing a computer game,
first person computer game,
you've played it before.
The computer game player
is being I call the daemon.
The daemon is your highest
self, it's your spirit guide.
It's that being that talks
to you quietly at night.
It's that being that warns
you, "I shouldn't do this,
this person is wrong for me,"
that instantaneous
recognition you have of people.
I also argue that sometimes
deja vu sensations are very much
to tell you something about this
particular point in your life
to make a decision
that's different.
So the daemon is
your spirit guide,
the daemon is the
computer player,
the player that's playing the
computer game of your life.
>> Lilou: Where?
Located where?
>> AP: He's located-- well
this is the question again
and this is the reason
I wrote my book, time--
the time book, "The Labyrinth
of Time" because of course,
we tend to assume that space
and time are out there,
that there is-- there
is distance between you
and I and everything else.
But the reality is, there isn't.
As Einstein once said,
if you take energy
out of the universe,
there isn't anything.
Space is literally empty,
there is nothing there.
Time is an illusion.
You know, we-- we talk
about time but when we talk
about time, we're actually not
talking about time, are we?
You know, time dilates,
time can expand depending
on your mood, how you feel.
So therefore, this
existence lives within time
and it lives within space.
The daemon exists outside of
time and outside of space.
It's something again-- funny I
thought Philip K. Dick called
orthogonal time.
It's a time that is at the
right angle to this time.
So every point of our time flow,
there is a right angle going
off called orthogonal time.
And that is where
the daemon exists.
It's a kind of timeless
zone but it's a sort of time
at a different kind of time
and it views from outside there
and views in to you
living this life.
But I always use the
analogy of you all--
you and I are what
we term eidolons.
Daemon and eidolon by
the way are actually
from Gnostic belief systems.
If you look them up, you
will find these are--
the word eidolon comes
from the word idol
as in is-- as in a facsimile.
So you and I, if we don't know
our own futures, we're eidolons,
we're the game-- we're the
little sprite on the screen,
we're the little Lara Croft
that runs down the corridors
and eventually gets
eaten by the monster.
>> Lilou: How about if
we are already at a stage
where we're starting to
co-create and understand
that there is out there without
knowing about this higher self
or without tapping into this
infinite potential, I guess?
But how about if we're already
consciously living our life,
where are we at?
>> AP: I think there are people
who are all subliminally
aware of this anyway.
It's just what the not doing
is necessarily vocalizing
or giving themselves
a model to understand.
I believe there are certain
advanced human beings
that are just instinctively
aware of the fact.
And I think what is happening
now is that there seem
to be a sea change whereby
people are becoming more
and more interested in
this kind of material.
But one of the things
that is a big B
in my bonnet is there
is an awful lot
of what I call snake
oil salesman out there,
people who will sell
you anything to make--
to make a book really.
And they're the people that
cause problems for people
like myself because I'm
not selling anything.
All I'm giving is
people ideas of thinking
about their own interface
with reality.
You know, I'm not a special guy.
I don't have advanced powers.
I'm not channeling information
from the planet Zog
[phonetic] or anything.
All I'm doing is somebody
looking at information,
pulling it together and saying,
"This makes a certain
degree of sense."
So I think what we need to
do is to actually keep our--
keep our feet firmly on
the ground in these things,
keep an open mind, but
not your open mind enough
that your brain falls out.
Because all that's going to
happen there is you're going
to be pushed along the route.
I think you don't
gain anything from.
You have to evaluate through
your own experiences exactly
what is happening in your life.
Just observe the things,
observe your deja vu sensations,
observe your precognitive
dreams.
If you have an out of
the body experience
or you have a lucid dream,
just observe what's happening
and what is taking place
because you're here to learn,
it's your learning
process, this is your life.
>> Lilou: But in the
practical side, so how--
how do you actually live that?
I guess, as you were writing
those books, you-- you had--
you experience many things
so how do you put this all
in practice and how can it
be practical in our life?
>> AP: I wish I knew.
That's one of the things
that people say to me many,
many times and they say, "Can't
you put together some kind
of a course on this or
can't you do workshops?"
Now, I did a workshop two
years ago, The Mind Body
and Spirit Festival
here in London,
in fact around the corner
from here at Earls Court.
And I will be later on this year
in November doing
something similar in Brighton
for the Mind Body
and Spirit people.
And people [inaudible] and
say, "Can you do a workshop?"
And I say, "I don't train people
to do it because it's as--
it's as much a mystery to me
as it is to everybody else.
I mean, I'm learning as well.
And that's why I say to people,
read my books but realize
that my later books will change
because as I discover
more information,
as I read more research--
for instance at the moment
I'm fascinated at the moment
to the role of DNA and
biophotons and bioluminescence
and the role of light.
And the way in which light
comes out from the body as much
as it goes into the body,
and of course light is
electromagnetic radiation.
And I'm intrigued by how these
interfaces with quantum physics.
Now, again, my approach to
quantum physics is scientific.
I don't use quantum physics
to prove anything other
than the fact that
we have to understand
that there are certain curious
effects within quantum physics
that suggest that
reality is observer based,
that the active observation
does collapse away function
into a form of reality.
You know, this-- this is--
this is a known fact, you know,
and if ever you want quantum
physicists who's a materials
reductionist to choke
on their corn flakes,
just ask them explain the
observer problem please.
Because it is self evident
that subatomic particles
are a statistical--
all subatomic particle
is a statistical wave
of a probability.
The minute this is
observed or measured,
it becomes a point particle and
it becomes a point particle.
Now for instance, many people
are not aware of this fact,
but there's been a
series of experiments done
by a guy called Anton Zeilinger
of the University of Vienna.
And he has been able to prove
that large molecules
actually have this,
what's called wave
particle duality.
Now large molecules are
what makes the world up.
Everything that's around
us is made up of molecules.
And molecules are affected
by the active observation.
Now certainly that makes this
reality look very, very curious
and very, very strange.
>> Lilou: I-- this is so-- this
is so intriguing, you know,
I'm-- as I know many
people watching
and I will include myself,
we're so called into digging
and to discovering
and to learning more
and intuitively we have
this, this, this, this,
and I'm always intrigued
to the practical aspect
and how can we get even
deeper in those realms.
So I don't know if with your
experience you could tell us how
when we have those deja vus
for example, what are those
and how-- there's-- it's
like a piece is missing
from what I'm hearing so I
can see the full picture.
>> AP: One of the-- you know,
this question that's asked many,
many times of myself which, you
know, what does this all mean.
You know, what does
it mean for me?
What it means for you is that
you are a unique consciousness,
existing in, for want
of a better term,
your own computer game.
So therefore, if you know
that that is the case,
you can then train
yourself to possibly,
not manipulate your reality
because it's not quite the same
but you can use your reality
in a more kind of dynamic way.
You can realize that
these things--
there are messages in things.
For instance, I'm
fascinated by synchronicity.
I contributed an article to
a book called "The Sync Book"
which was published in the US
around about six or
seven months ago.
I'm also interested in the work
of people like Daniel Pinchbeck
in terms of synchronicity
and such like.
I think that synchronicity is
trying to tell us something.
I think there are certain prompt
phenomenon, they're intriguing,
I'm intrigued by the
11:11 prompt phenomenon.
You know the idea that you
see 11:11 all the time.
Now, as an--
>> Lilou: I have
that all the time
and I know many people that do.
>> AP: Now get this.
What really intrigued me was
that I was talking about this
to my wife recently,
I'm saying this 11:11,
I'm seeing it everywhere.
And she turned around
and she said,
"You've got a personal
message for 11:11, you know."
And I said," What do you mean?"
She said, "Look at the title
of your Dutch edition
of your first book.
What's the title?"
It's called 11 : 11 : 11.
It's Dutch for life
after life after life.
Now is that nature's subtle
way of giving us a message?
Because the Dutch people would
probably not necessarily realize
that life after life after life
in Dutch means 11 :
11 : 11 in English.
So we have those kind of
little weird almost cosmic joke
of what Young called the
[inaudible] the cosmic joke
that sometimes gives you
a little wake up call.
And I think you use the analogy
of the movie "Groundhog Day".
In "Groundhog Day",
Jimmy Connors,
I'm actually working
Wimbledon at the moment
so I've got tennis
players on my mind.
That Connors, the
central character,
the Bill Murray character,
he lives the same day
over and over again.
And if you know the
movie, what you will see is
that initially he has the
advantage over everybody else
because he knows what's
going to happen next.
He uses that to his advantage
and he tries to bed the girl,
he tries to do all this kind
of incredibly selfish things.
But then he realizes
that this is a gift.
So he teaches himself
foreign languages.
He teaches himself
how to play the piano.
But he's all trying to do
it so he can woe the girl.
But then he realizes
that he can do good.
So he runs around the town
and make sure he's
underneath the tree
when a little boy
falls from the tree.
Now, I suspect this is what
our lives are all about.
I think our lives are
about us developing
as a better human being,
to become an avatar,
for want of a better
term, you know the idea--
you know people argue
when reincarnation.
The theory of reincarnation
is that you come back
as different people
in different times
and you eventually
live the perfect life.
I argue that it's
the same principle
but you live the
perfect life as you.
In other words, you live
your life over and over again
until you get it right.
And you live the perfect life.
You win the computer game.
You know what is a first
person computer game,
when you're running down the
corridors, the ultimate aim is
to be able to get to
the end of the game,
and that is what life is.
Life is a time where you will
come back again and again
and again until you
get it right.
Then when you get it
right, you then move on.
You're allowed to move on
whether there's a judgment going
on here or not, I don't know
because that is beyond
my appreciation of that.
But there's another subtle
moral, more subtle idea to this,
and I cite this in my next book.
There is an idea, and Bill
Hicks very much cited this,
the American comedian, when
he turned around and said,
"Breaking news: young man
on acid suddenly realizes
that we are all one
consciousness experiencing
itself subjectively."
And this is the move-- I'm
walking moving to now is
that you and I and all
those viewers out there,
and everybody else, we are
one single consciousness
experiencing itself
subjectively.
So suddenly this
gets quite complex
because it suddenly makes you
realize that this is almost
like a role playing game.
Consciousness it's the--
for want of a better word,
god is the wrong term because
it has certain connotations,
but whatever the great substance
is that's created all this is
within us all and it's
part of us and it is us.
Now, particularly people
who take dimethyltryptamine
and ayahuasca, they always talk
about this feeling of oneness
that they get, the
holistic feel,
the being part of everything.
Mystics have talked
about it for centuries.
This is because under certain
circumstances, we can attune
to the fact that we
are one consciousness.
Now again, you can
do the science
of this 'cause Professor
Bernard Haisch,
who is an American
astrophysicist has written this
in a book called
"The God Theory".
There is also a guy
called Martin W. Ball,
who's an anthropologist, who
has written a book called
"The Entheological Paradigm"
and he does the anthropology
of all this as well.
So there's a lot of very, very--
>> Lilou: Larry Dossey as well.
>> AP: Larry of course,
yes of course Larry Dossey.
So we have here a lot of people
who were going down this route.
What I think I'm doing is,
being the eclectic thinker I am,
is I'm taking information
from as many wide sources
that I possibly can.
You know from everything,
from anthropology,
even to the Kabbalah.
I'm actually interfacing
with Kabbalah scholars.
There is a friend of mine
called Joel Bakst, who is based
in Denver in Colorado
who's a rabbi
and his work is fascinating
because he links DMT,
dimethyltryptamine together
with teaches from the Torah,
and it's uncanny stuff and
it really all pulls together.
So effectively we have this huge
picture, and I sometimes feel
that I've got all these little
pieces of a jigsaw puzzle
and I feel one day, they're
all going to fit into place
and I'm going to go,
wow, that's incredible.
But at the moment,
I'm still searching
around the dark like
everybody else.
I'm just a little bit further
along the route than some people
but that doesn't mean
I'm special or anything.
It just means that things seem--
information seems to
have been given to me,
it seems to be supplied to me
when I need it, quite peculiar.
>> Lilou: Which is the
potential of all of us,
receiving those bits of
information and having them
so that we can live
this potential so--
but when you talk of the
universe or the oneness
so we would all have a role to
play and so there's this kind
of this idea of being
selfless and following the flow
and the synchronicity but
also being an actor there.
What did you find
about this dynamic?
>> AP: Yeah, I know.
This is very much the dynamic I
feel that sometimes people turn
around and say you know that
if I do harm to somebody else,
you know, some people
can be profoundly selfish
and they can-- they could
walk on other people
and they can destroy
the people's lives
to actually gain wealth
or fame or whatever.
But if we are all one
entity experiencing itself
subjectively, all you are
actually effectively doing is
damaging yourself.
In other words, by
damaging other people
and hurting other people, you
are in fact hurting yourself
and damaging your own
self and giving yourself,
for want of a better
term, bad karma.
So when you come back and live
your life again, you should--
something maybe is aware of--
you're daemon maybe
aware of the fact
that you did this
thing wrong last time
because we've all done things
in our past lives, I know I have
where I've hurt people terribly.
And I wish, I wish, I
wish I haven't done that.
You know if I could
put the clock back.
>> Lilou: But it's like
time doesn't exist.
>> AP: But it doesn't, exactly.
So in which case you can't put
the clock back because you live
that life again and
this time around,
you won't say those things,
you won't do those things
because something inside you
will say, "Don't do this,
do something different."
Become almost-- it's again
the wrong term but a saint,
to the concept of a saint who
somebody lives a pure life.
And that's what we're all here
to do, is to live a pure life.
>> Lilou: That is
a life, I guess,
based on compassion
and gratitude.
>> AP: Exactly.
And understanding and
appreciating everybody.
I mean one of the,
one of the writers
that fascinates me
is Tom Campbell,
a guy that's written a
series of books called
"My Big Toe" my grand-- my big
grand theory of everything.
And one of the things
that Tom discusses
in his work is the idea of
energy and negative energy,
and how it is that when
we harm other people,
it has a bad effect
on everything.
You know, where as if
we work with each other,
everything is much
better when we cooperate
and when we help each other.
You know, we can
all work together.
You know, it's the old picture
isn't it, of the two goats
with a piece of string
roped between them
and they're both pulling
against each other to eat food.
And there's two sections
of food either side.
Whereas if they cooperate,
they can both turn around
and eat the food together.
And I think that is such
a strong, strong image
and I think this is
the future of mankind,
but so much of mankind
now is getting so selfish.
I almost get the feeling
that mankind is splitting
into two groups.
The spiritual seekers
and spiritually,
you know, spirituality is--
>> Lilou: There's another label.
>> AP: Yeah, it's another
label which is a bad one,
and it shouldn't be
used in that way.
Spirituality is just a--
realizing that I am an entity
that is perceiving
reality from somewhere
within this three dimensional
reality, but I'm more than this.
It doesn't make me special
because we are all special
and none of us is special,
if that makes sense.
But we need-- we
are here to learn
and we're here to
help each other.
Whereas there are other people
that really have no empathy,
that really want to just
destroy and hurt other people.
And I think that's the
greatest truth, and it's taught
in all religions, it's taught
in all sympathetic philosophies.
It's the perennial
philosophy, you know,
and it really is this idea
that we are evolving beings.
As Teilhard de Chardin said,
"We are spiritual beings
having a physical life,"
and that's very much
my philosophy.
>> Lilou: Feels great
to be spiritual beings right
now living this experience.
I feel that more and more,
a lot of us as you said it's
splitting, the New Earth, huh?
Some people are speaking
of the New Earth,
even Dolores Cannon was
speaking of, kind of the split.
But it's-- I feel
we're living it now,
wherever we are physically,
however--
there's so many theories but
in the end, it has to resonate
through their selves too because
there's so many people saying
so many things out there.
>> AP: Well that's it.
You have to make your choices
but what we don't want is a kind
of a Harper's Bazaar [phonetic]
of you choose what thing
you want to believe in.
That's why I say to people
who are interested in my work,
"I am not a guru,
please, please, please.
I am not a guru."
Time and time again, I
don't have the answers.
I'm a questioner,
I'm a questioner
like everybody else is.
I'm a searcher, I've been
fortunate enough to have people
who have been willing to
be interested in my work
and publish my books for me.
You know, and I'm
internally grateful for that.
But my ideas are progressing
and they're always progressing
because I'm just a searcher
so I'm nobody special
so I don't have any
great answers.
And I don't think
I would ever want
to have the answers
for other people.
We are all here to
find our own way,
and if my books help
people see the world
in the way I see it,
that's wonderful.
But it doesn't mean the way
I see the world is right.
It just means it's the way it
seems to make sense for me.
>> Lilou: Beautiful.
Well, thank you so much
for this delicious moment.
We have all enjoyed this and I
look forward having another one
of these juicy conversations.
Thank you so much.
>> AP: Thank you very much.
>> Lilou: Much much
love Juicy co-creators,
hope you have enjoyed
this video and check
out there's a lot more videos
[Background Music] coming
from London and then
California, so stay tuned.
Big, big kisses.
Bye-bye.
[ Music ]